---
layout: post
author: Alex Krikorian
image: https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b01156fdeda1c970c.jpg
title: DONE
categories: [academics]
status: Publish
date: 2009-06-08
---


I'm done with all my work!!!
Well, I do have some grading to do for Ge1. That's only going to take a couple of hours though...and I don't have ANY OTHER WORK to rush home to do. I guess no excuses to leave the grading room anymore...darn?
Friday was so great. I turned in my thesis to my advisor Professor Cindy Weinstein at 2:55pm, then went to a Blogger bakery session which was really delicious! Chocolate cake and cookies, for blogger appreciation :) I hope you all liked us, it was the first time we all got together at Admissions, and we talked about the program - definitely let us know if you all have any suggestions! Then I went to my house (Page) at 5pm for a class picture and Sparkling Apple Cider celebration for the end of term, yay! Tom Mannion's dinner was at 6:30 and boy were we hungry...that menu I posted proved to be just as delicious as I thought it would be. Pictures of the food are below, look at that extremely classy (and totally edible, even the ink!!) dessert!

{% include image.html img="https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b01156fdeda88970c.jpg" %}
Saturday was just so relaxing and fun. My boyfriend took me to the mall and I bought myself a graduation present - all 6 seasons of Curb Your Enthusiasm. I finally have time to put them all on and just watch! Without worrying about registration for next year, my summer reading, some essay I got an extension on...nothing. Just how my graduation cap and gown will look, and whether I will go get my hair done before the ceremony. :)
These are some pictures of the dinner and the fun we had on Friday:


{% include image.html img="https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b011570d3f037970b.jpg" %}

{% include image.html img="https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b01156fdedc12970c.jpg" %}

{% include image.html img="https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b01156fdedc9e970c.jpg" %}My last "final" was actually today, for cooking! It was nice for me being a senior because we spent 7 hours cooking, and I'm glad I didn't have other finals and last minute sets to worry about finishing. I was just worried about having our bacon-wrapped shrimp done in time for the judging! I don't think it has hit me yet how I'm done with Caltech...but maybe it won't fully, I'll probably start having the nightmares soon about whether I've finished a really hard set in time for class, or not studying for a super difficult final. Either way, I don't have to do that anymore, wooooo!!! 
Graduation is Friday, more events to come before then!! Yay!! I have two degrees and diploma is coming!
