---
layout: post
author: Muneeb Imtiaz
image: https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/old_images/caltech_as_it_happens/6a0105349b8251970b0167645e7a1f970b.jpg
title: Hey there!
categories: [culture]
status: Publish
date: 2012-04-01
---

<p style="text-align: justify;">Hey guys, let me start with a little introduction. My name is Muneeb and I'm a frosh looking to major in mechanical engineering and business, economics and management, or BEM. I am also an international student, originally from Pakistan but I've lived in Singapore, Malaysia and, most recently, Saudi Arabia. As you can imagine, this makes it somewhat harder to answer the question 'where are you from?', so that's probably one you want to skip when we meet in person. Besides the usual math and science, I am very interested in business and economics, hence the major, and I also enjoy playing squash and travelling.

<p style="text-align: justify;">All this influences the kinds of things I enjoy doing and my experience here at Caltech. In this blog, I hope to share some experiences that might give you guys some idea of what to expect. Of course, as always, the experience is what you make of it and you'll see that in the variety of experiences on the various blogs.

<p style="text-align: justify;">Over the last couple of terms I have had an absolute blast and LA is definitely a great city to be in for college. There is something to do every weekend, whether it be paintballing with friends (one of who mwas actually in the military) or attending the People's Choice Awards and see Neil Patrick Harris, of How I Met Your Mother fame, get dragged away by security 20 feet from your seat. There are also several colleges fairly close by and if you have friends going to USC, UCLA or any of the other colleges in the area, you will definitely be able to hang out with them. I don't think I have to mention the magnificent SoCal weather, but I will. It's every bit as wonderful as it's made out to be.

<p style="text-align: justify;">But that does not mean you have to go off campus to have fun. ASCIT, the student association here, holds regular events on campus. In fact last term they actually brought an ice skating rink to campus, and had great music and food to go with it! There are also the houses/hovses that host their own events, and alleys within houses host their own seperate events too. In short, if you're bored and want to do something, there will definitely be something going on.

<p style="text-align: justify;">That's an incredibly small taste of what we're about here, and over the next few weeks I, and my fellow bloggers, will try to expand on it in our own way. But in order to really capture the awesomeness of Caltech and LA, it really does help to come down here and see it for yourself, so I hope to meet alot of you at Prefrosh Weekend, in a few weeks. I will probably put up another post in a week, but in the meantime if you have any questions or ideas, please feel free to leave a comment. Finally, since I hate blog posts without pictures, and since I've done a horrible job of including any in the rest of this post, I will leave you with a picture of me and a few friends in front of the Staples Center, in downtown LA, on the night of Cirque du Soliel's Micheal Jackson tribute show. It was an amazing night and an amazing show, and I highly reccomend it.

-Muneeb
