---
layout: post
date: 2023-04-10 19:30:09 +0000
image: https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/images/2023/AnnabelGomez/Insight .jpg
tags: []
title: 'My Senior Thesis '
author: argomez
categories:
- research
- academics

---
One of the graduation requirements at Caltech, specifically in the Mechanical and Civil Engineering Department, is the completion of a Capstone Design project. This can be accomplished by either completing a Senior Thesis or taking ME 72 (Engineering Design Laboratory), a robotic competition where teams of students are tasked with designing and building several robots throughout the term. In my case, I opted for a Senior Thesis. Although it’s called a Senior Thesis, I got approval from the admin to complete it during my junior year. A senior thesis is an independent, experimental year-long research project you get academic credit for. Part of the responsibility is finding a mentor, either at Caltech or JPL, and developing a year-long project plan. You are also required to frequently present your progress to the Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Committee. 

There were many factors that influenced my decision to fulfill my Capstone Design project in my junior year instead of my senior year. The main reason was my ability to find a mentor. As I’ve written before, I’ve completed two other internships at JPL. The first one ([https://caltechadmissions.blog/annabels-theorem/](https://caltechadmissions.blog/annabels-theorem/ "https://caltechadmissions.blog/annabels-theorem/")) was a year-long project where I used machine learning to increase the integrity of navigation and communication signals and reduce signal interruptions caused by solar activity. My second internship ([https://caltechadmissions.blog/mars-2020-surf/](https://caltechadmissions.blog/mars-2020-surf/ "https://caltechadmissions.blog/mars-2020-surf/")) was a Caltech Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) where I got to work on the Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover mission. It was not easy getting either of these internships. In fact, I ended up emailing my cover letter and resume to upwards of 50 people at JPL and interviewed with several of them before landing my internship with Mars 2020. Shortly after I had committed to working with the Mars 2020 team, I was contacted by Dr. Eloise Marteau. She is a Research Technologist and InSight Robotic Arm Investigation Scientist at JPL's Robotics and Mobility section. She shared with me a research opportunity within her team. After interviewing with her and discussing the specifics, we both agreed that this would be a good research opportunity through which to complete my thesis.

The Mars Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy, and Heat Transport (InSight) lander is NASA’s first outer space robotic explorer designed to study Mars’ interior structure, such as its crust, mantle, and core. It landed on Mars in 2018 and is equipped with a diverse set of tools. One of those tools is a robotic arm responsible for instrument placement and moving the onboard camera. The InSight mission was planned to end after about two years on Mars. However, it was extended further to continue its investigation and collection of seismic data. Later, NASA recognized that the arm could perform a variety of other investigations to further study the Martian soil's mechanical properties and its geological features.

This is where I came in. The aim of my thesis was to develop a project plan that would allow me to research the force estimations of the InSight robotic arm. The main objectives of my research consisted of correcting previously established force estimation equations to develop an algorithm that could accurately estimate the force at the tip of the robotic arm where a scoop is located. I meticulously studied the motions of the robotic arm and worked through the forward kinematics. I created and tested an algorithm that uses deployment data from the arm’s motor currents on Mars to successfully calculate the force and torque of the arm at each joint. My other contributions included developing a calibration setup to perform tests, compare algorithm outputs, and understand the arm’s capabilities. This entailed designing, modeling, 3D printing, laser cutting, machining, and developing a simplified testbed of the robotic arm and its scoop. I designed a 3D-printed metal scoop, similar to the one on InSight, machined an actuated laser-cut arm resembling the lander's, and created a sand-based testbed to measure the stress field produced by the scoop using a force/torque sensor.

[https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/images/2023/AnnabelGomez/insight](https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/images/2023/AnnabelGomez/insight lab.jpg "https://d24slhcvzhzz82.cloudfront.net/images/2023/AnnabelGomez/insight") lab.jpg

This research project was by far my most challenging yet rewarding to date. It gave me the opportunity to use my technical, programming, and mechanical engineering skills at length. Not only did I have to apply the advanced robotic theory I was currently learning in class, but I also had to learn how to balance the technical and design/manufacturing sides of the project. It encouraged me to grow not only as a researcher but as an individual as well. I had a lot more independence and responsibility when it came to scheduling project timelines, maintaining and adhering to a budget, procuring and interacting with vendors, and communicating my results to the science and engineering teams at JPL as well as the Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Committee at Caltech on a regular basis. My mentors were very impressed with the outcome, and I am currently working on publishing my findings. Additionally, my results will be implemented by other teams at JPL and will benefit the overall progress of the mission by keeping it moving forward.

Overall, I think both options for fulfilling the Capstone Design project requirement are very beneficial, and you’ll learn a lot. Deciding to complete one over the other is a personal choice. In my case, a Senior Thesis fit better into my schedule and was a project where I could directly apply what I was learning in class that year. At the end of the day, it’s really about your preferences and what you want to get out of the experience that counts.

More about my internship and Senior Thesis can be found on JPL's YouTube: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFS0JRPf8P4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFS0JRPf8P4 "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFS0JRPf8P4")